In this section, we will explore
the real life challenges of time
series data: volume, velocity,
variety, and veracity and
discuss how CrateDB effectively
addresses these challenges.
Let's discuss the inherent 4 V's
of time series data and how we
navigate through these
challenges.
Volume: Time series data is known
for the vast amount of data it
generates.
For tasks like root cause
analysis or precise forecasting,
it's crucial to maintain
granular data.
Downsampling isn't an option
here as it would result in the
loss of important details.
Velocity:
The speed at which data is
generated and processed is
another significant factor.
High performance queries and
aggregations are a must and we
need to be able to act on
incoming data in real time.
Variety: Time series data comes
in various types and formats
ranging from structured to semi-
structured and unstructured
data.
This variety needs to be
effectively handled by the
technology we use.
Veracity:
Finally, the quality and
reliability of the data are
critical.
Given the high volume and
velocity of time series data,
ensuring data veracity can be a
significant challenge.
How do these four V's manifest in
a data architecture?
Depending on the use case of
your project, various data
sources might be relevant.
These can range from enterprise
data from ERP or CRM systems,
existing analytical data, sensor
data APIs, data lakes, or other
databases.
The applications intended to be
built can vary from traditional
applications that run browser
based or on mobile phones to
real time analytics,
visualizations, predictions and
natural language applications
like chat bots.
Operational tasks that support
these efforts, like MLOps, also
come into play.
A project typically starts with
a time series database that
imports data from sensors or
streams.
New applications can be built in
a timely manner, often with a
small team and within budget.
As the application grows, you
start working with contextual
data imported from enterprise
systems like ERP or CRM.
Perhaps existing analytical data
should be utilized as well.
At this point, a time series
database does not fulfill the
requirements leading to the
introduction of a relational
database.
This new technology needs to be
integrated and operated
properly.
Applications now also require a
back end to communicate with
different data stores as they
cannot speak five or six
different languages to access
each individual storage
technology.
This application back end could
be code or a more complex
solution like data
virtualization or federated
query layers.
Alternatively, or in addition,
you might start integrating a
document database for easier and
faster schema management for
more diverse contextual data.
This addition to the tech stack
introduces a new language that
developers need to learn.
As the application gains more
users, the demand for data
search functionality grows,
prompting the addition of a
search engine to the tech stack
and yet another language that
developers need to learn.
The number of data integration
and synchronization processes
also increases.
Taking this scenario further, a
geo-database and a new query
language may be introduced for
specialized tracking purposes.
Finally, as users request a chat
bot interface, a vector database
might be introduced to store the
necessary semantic
representations of your data.
These technologies also come
with their own proprietary APIs.
In the end you have a very
complex architecture with a lot
of data replication, different
technologies and multiple
different languages in use for
each of these technologies.
Usually this reality is hidden
behind a well drawn architecture
picture, but it remains a
spaghetti architecture.
The effort in terms of people,
time and money has grown
significantly at this stage,
demonstrating the complexity and
challenges of managing all data
that is necessary to build an
end to end time series solution.
In summary, as time series data
management projects evolve, they
often encounter a growing
complexity and mounting
technical debt.
This debt, once established,
becomes increasingly hard to
eliminate.
Managing diverse data types in
separate data stores
necessitates data integration
and synchronization, which add
to the project's complexity.
Furthermore, scaling up and out
multiple data stores can prove
challenging as traditional time
series databases often falter
under such demands.
The result is an intricate
application back end due to
different languages and silos
which can be quite challenging
to manage effectively.
These issues have significant
implications on the people
front.
The complexity necessitates
multiple skill sets and a larger
team to maintain the system
effectively.
This situation is far from the
ideal scenario of simple and
fast training, high developer
productivity, and efficient
operations in terms of time.
These challenges slow down the
delivery of value, prolong the
time required for changes, and
lead to a lot of overhead
activities.
This is a stark contrast to the
desired state of fast
development and rapid changes.
Moreover, these issues result in
high total cost of ownership and
high cost of change, both of
which businesses would prefer to
minimize.
The solution to these challenges
lies in maintaining a single
source of truth that is kept
updated in near real time.
This involves native support for
multiple data types in one
technology accessible via
standard SQL.
A dynamic schema supports rapid
application development and
evolution, while high
performance, availability, and
scalability ensure that the
system can handle the demands
placed upon it.
In this way, businesses can
effectively manage time series
data, reducing complexity,
minimizing total cost of
ownership, and accelerating time
to value.
This is exactly how CrateDB can
help.
Beyond its capability of storing
tabular and time series data,
CrateDB provides several
additional features that enhance
its utility.
These include support for JSON
full-text search, vector storage
and similarity search as well as
geospatial data handling.
It can also store binary data.
All of these data types can be
combined in a single database
record if needed and be easily
accessed via standard SQL,
making CrateDB a robust and
versatile solution for time
series data management.
The dynamic schema and user
defined functions add the needed
flexibility for efficient
application development and
maintenance when it comes to
building new features, changing
data schemas of sources and
integrating new data sources.
The versatility and flexibility
are backed by a distributed
query engine that allows for
massive high volume concurrent
reads and writes.
The columnar storage and
advanced indexing techniques
help to support complex queries
and aggregations which eases
development as not all indexes
need to be defined manually.
The distributed nature allows
for highly available and
horizontal scalable
architectures.
Last but not least, CrateDB can
be deployed on the edge in your
data centers as well as in cloud
environments.
It is also available as a fully
managed service.
A synchronization mechanism
called Logical replication helps
to keep the edge and other
clusters in sync, for example to
store and process data on the
edge and synchronize the
relevant information into the
cloud to perform holistic
analysis.